>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
Have you ever heard the
phrase "don't cry over
anything that doesn't
cry over you?"
Well, then, why do we
cry over losing things
like money or material things?
Sometimes it actually hurts
like a loss of a person.
Joining me today is the
financial whisperer.
Her name is Pegi Burdick.
She's the author of a book
called "It's Never About
the Money ...Even When It Is."
And she's joining us to talk
about why we personify money.
Welcome.
Thanks for being here.
>>PEGI BURDICK: Oh, listen,
thank you for inviting me.
>>LISA: Wow.
You have such a great
history and story.
Let's talk about,
first of all, you
started off as a
mortgage broker, right?
>>BURDICK: Uh huh.
>>LISA: And counseling--
and how did you specifically
wound up being a financial
whisperer for women
specifically?
>>BURDICK: It really
started-- I was
vice president of a knitwear
company here in Los Angeles.
>>LISA: Knitworks?
>>BURDICK: Knitwear.
>>LISA: OK.
>>BURDICK: And we sold our
product through trunk shows
around the country.
So we had people living in
Houston, living in Charleston,
living in New York,
putting these shows on.
And our factory was here,
on Tennessee in Los Angeles.
And I would get the orders
in every Monday morning
because the show was
over Sunday night,
and I'd see duplicate
orders from people.
And I'd call up Mrs. Goldstein
and say, Mrs. Goldstein--
Hi, Pegi, how are you?
I said, fine.
I want to double check before
we process this for you.
You're getting
another black jacket?
You have all these
other jackets.
You want-- And so that gives
you seven black jackets.
And she'd go, yup,
that's what I want.
I'm like, OK.
So I'd say to myself,
why does someone
need seven black jackets?
>>LISA: Wow.
And this would
happen over and over?
>>BURDICK: Yes.
That would happen, and here's
one of my favorite ones.
We'd get orders
with two different
or three different credit cards.
And I call up the consultant--
let's say in Charleston--
and say, how is this happening?
You have three different ways
of paying for all these clothes.
She's like, well, she doesn't
want her husband to find out.
Got it.
OK.
So little by little, I
would witness and experience
these stories.
But meanwhile, I was
in such denial myself,
it was easy to look
at them and go, boy,
this doesn't make sense.
How ridiculous.
And meanwhile, my debt was going
like this, my personal debt.
>>LISA: Wow.
Let's break that down into
two different parts, though.
First of all, let's
talk about, if we can,
the shopping
addiction for women,
because this is a
conversation about money,
and we've got a
lot to cover here.
And then I want to talk with you
about your own personal debt.
But why do you think
that women do that?
That buy and buy how
many pairs of shoes?
How many purses do we need?
How many black jackets
do we really need?
What is the addiction?
Where does it come from?
>>BURDICK: Well, it
comes from many things,
but the biggest problem
people have, across the board,
is a disconnection between
who they authentically are
and who they've learned to
become in order to survive.
So when you have such
intense disconnection,
you also then have a lack
of emotional intimacy
with yourself, with your
children, with your sister.
It doesn't matter.
Because that's where the
richness of your life is,
but if you can't access it,
you'll play with yourself.
You take yourself shopping.
Oh, this feels good.
Whatever.
But it's not until later, then,
when the bill arrives, or you
get home and you start
adding everything up
and realize what you've
spent, the panic sets in.
But that euphoria of
control and that euphoria
of having fun with yourself
is part of the addiction.
>>LISA: It is an addiction.
Also, when you're in
the moment, there's
sales people and marketing,
and it's all marketed to buy.
You are marketed to buy
how many times a day?
2,000 times a day?
And so it's--
yeah-- there's that.
So you have to not only have
awareness but hyper awareness.
I just recently moved,
and we literally gave away
50%, if not more, of what we
had because we didn't need it.
>>BURDICK: Right.
>>LISA: So in that space-- we
gave it to women's shelters
and great places-- now we're
coming along the holiday
season, and more gifts
are coming in the door.
And I say, no, we
don't need anything.
We really don't need anything.
If you want, donate to
this, or maybe buy a plant
to plant somewhere or a tree,
but people don't get it.
And there's so many
disconnections in this space.
Yeah.
I want to dig into this.
>>BURDICK: Well,
here's the thing.
You have to remember that we
are a consumer driven society.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BURDICK: And what do
advertisers play on?
They play on our
sense of inadequacy.
And who suffers more with
a sense of inadequacy?
Women more than men.
So here's a classic example.
You go into a store.
You don't really
need the jacket.
You want the jacket.
You put it on, and
meanwhile, that morning,
you think-- you got on
the scale and, oh, god.
And you feel, you know, zaftig.
You got a jacket on.
The woman goes, you
look so thin in that.
And you go, I'll buy it.
>>LISA: I'll buy two.
>>BURDICK: Right?
You let someone else
influence you that way.
Because the key, really,
if you're grounded,
it's a nice compliment,
and let it be that.
>>LISA: I learned once that
Justin Bieber's marketing
company was actually
marketing towards the mothers
rather than the children
of his same age range
because they're
the ones that buy.
And it's--
So we do have that.
There's a very strong
psychological marketing
campaign going out
around the world.
So with that said, let's
talk about empowering
ourselves more.
So adequacy around
ourselves and needing
more sense of completion
and that we're
fine without that
whatever it is, right?
>>BURDICK: Well,
everybody-- you have
to take a step back and ask, why
does someone have the sense of,
nothing is ever good enough?
Why are they not-- because
the essence of that
is, why am I not good enough?
Which, of course,
connects to shame.
Why do we breed this mentality
over and over and over again?
And I-- and you've
read some of my stuff.
I'm the biggest supporters
of women, mothers.
I'm the biggest
protector of mothers.
I'm also holding them
accountable for making
certain mistakes when they
bring their children up.
So if the mother doesn't have it
together to teach her daughter,
in this case, certain values,
then guess what happens?
It just gets worse and worse.
>>LISA: Generationally.
>>BURDICK: Right.
Exactly.
So there's no parachute
to catch them.
So the key is for the mother
to stand still and really build
some self awareness.
Because without self awareness,
you can't move ahead.
You can't solve a problem.
You're just doing the same
thing over and over again,
and every-- and
you're the victim.
Nothing's ever your fault.
Well, you know what?
This is your fault.
This thing is your fault.
>>LISA: So you
said that you were
in a certain level of debt.
How did you become self aware in
order to get rid of that debt?
>>BURDICK: I didn't
have a choice.
Because that's what happens
when you're in denial.
You are so invested in
this certain belief system.
But what happened
to me is that then I
said to my husband of 11 years,
this is not working for me.
We rented a beach house in
Redondo for $3,800 a month.
That was stupid.
I had sold my house, which
I worked so hard to buy.
And I spent the money foolishly.
I invested in something
incredibly stupid.
I was a plaintiff in a lawsuit
that had not been settled yet.
One of my dogs was dying.
So everything--
every structure that
would be something you
could stand on and count on
was suddenly disappearing,
because the more invested you
are in denial, the
harder it is going
to be for someone to finally
take a crowbar into your life
so you can go, oh, my god.
I've got to make a change.
There's only one way out.
And you have to
pick to do that way.
Or not.
>>LISA: So when
you got a blueprint
of the financial despair
that you were in,
what did you do with
that information?
>>BURDICK: Well,
first of all, it
was a real shock to my friends,
because I always came across
as the one that was
the most competent one.
I was the leader.
I had everything together.
When I had to admit
to some of my friends
that I was going under,
they were, like, shocked.
And some of them gave me some
really, really good advice.
But I had to then implement it.
That's the catch.
And I know-- hopefully we
talk about sabotage later--
is that getting
information isn't enough.
You have to go use it.
So "The Artist's Way,"
Hay House-- Louise
did this great book on
you can heal yourself.
There's great
material out there.
Suze Orman had just
come out with her book
on women and finance.
So I started reading it, and
I realized, you know what?
I might be able to do
this, but I didn't really
have a path, because I didn't
have a job at the time.
I was in between all the stuff.
And I hired a career coach.
She was at least the
first time in my life
that anyone ever asked
me-- and by that time,
I was, like, what, 58-- what
is it that makes you happy?
And I'm like, well,
what do you mean?
And she said-- really,
she got me to drill down.
What makes me happy
is helping people.
And helping people
is by teaching.
I only had three
sessions with her.
Man, I took off like a bat.
So that's someone-- I hit the
right person at the right time,
because I think--
>>LISA: And you were ready.
>>BURDICK: Yes.
Because you know this
with the universe.
When you ask, and
you're clean about it,
the universe gives you
exactly what you need.
>>LISA: Yes.
This is very true.
>>BURDICK: I'm not
saying it's easy,
but it's the
information you need.
And that's how I started
my climb out of debt.
>>LISA: And then you
decided out of that space
to become a mortgage broker.
>>BURDICK: Well, no.
By that time, I had given
up the brokerage business
because the housing
market started to shift.
>>LISA: I see.
OK.
>>BURDICK: But
that's how I learned
that I loved to teach because
in my mortgage business,
I had written this book, "What
Every Woman Needs to Know
About Getting a Mortgage," and I
was more interested in teaching
these women, because the
universal question was,
when I said to them, how did
you fall into bankruptcy?
Or, how did you
do this and that?
I got the same answer.
>>LISA: Which was?
>>BURDICK: Which
was either someone
in their family got
sick, or they got sick.
Went through all
of their savings,
because they had not planned.
They didn't have a 401(k).
They didn't have proper
health insurance, all of that.
But meanwhile they had
a million dollar house.
That doesn't make sense.
So as their life
started to shift,
I said, so what was
the other problem?
She said, well, I've been
to all these brokers,
but no one explained to
me the mortgage process,
because women, when
you bank speak,
women especially get this
glazed look in our eyes, right?
It's like too much.
And no one's paying attention.
Why is this person
not paying attention?
So I would say, OK.
So I used to run workshops
on Thursday evenings
at our company, and I would
teach these women what's
involved with
getting a mortgage.
And I came up with this
thing, "The Borrower's
Bill of Rights."
Because women were
so intimidated
when they would talk
about mortgages and all
of the numbers
involved, they never
felt they were entitled
to ask the broker, so
how much money are
you making on this?
Because it was always the
men that were the brokers.
The women were down here.
[SPEAKING GIBBERISH] No.
You've got to come up here.
It's the biggest asset
and the biggest liability.
>>LISA: So you teach them
to ask the right questions
by explaining in really
easy terms what-- not easy,
but take that time to
explain the terms, which--
>>BURDICK: But it is
easy, because everything
can be broken down
to three words.
You really can.
Almost everything
in life, I think.
So if you make it
simple and digestible,
oh, they get-- oh, I get it.
Now I see what it's about.
They have to do
the work, though.
They have to want to ask it.
They have to be
able to use it when
they're talking to a broker.
So it's giving women
permission to really grow
into their own space.
>>BURDICK: What were
the three words?
>>BURDICK: No, I
said everything can
be broken down into three words.
Everything.
>>LISA: Really?
>>BURDICK: I try
it all the time.
It gets on people's nerves.
>>LISA: You mean just
simple, simple statements.
>>BURDICK: Really.
Really.
I love you.
>>LISA: Ah, yeah.
That's true.
>>BURDICK: Doesn't get
more simple than that.
>>LISA: That's true.
OK.
So bankruptcy happens
because events and unforeseen
circumstances happen because
savings don't occur or 401(k)s
and so forth.
How do you get to the savings?
How do you consciously--
do you recommend
taking a percentage of
your paycheck or payment
or whatever it is
and putting it away?
Is that something you--
>>BURDICK: Absolutely.
Well, it's a couple of things.
It's not just the illness.
I remember I had this
women on the phone,
and we had adjustable rates,
and we had fixed rates.
So I'd say to her,
you know what,
for how your income
is right now,
you can afford this fixed rate.
But in 36 months-- because
she was getting a 327--
it's going to shift
to a variable.
And if the market changes,
and then your mortgage payment
goes up every
month, you won't be
able to afford it on
this current income.
And what do you
think the answer was?
No, that's OK, because
Bob's getting a raise,
and I have all this
rationalization.
So that wasn't a health issue.
That was a lifestyle choice.
So by having the discipline
that you make your contribution
to your savings or your
401(k) or whatever,
religiously, every
single paycheck,
matters, because
it's about respect.
>>LISA: Do you recommend
women having their own savings
account independent
of their husband's,
or do recommend commingling
funds completely?
>>BURDICK: Good question.
People always ask me that.
I think that you have to
have a couple of accounts.
Your own, his own, and joint.
And out of the joint comes
your mortgage payment,
comes stuff that
you do together.
And your own stuff
is your own stuff,
because your husband's
going to go out and buy
this wacky $2,000
mountain bike, and you're
going to go out and spend
$1,000 on a pair of shoes.
So your own stuff
is without judgment
as long as you've taken
care of the stuff here.
But you bring up
but another point,
is that people need to talk
about money before they
get married.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
>>BURDICK: The premarital chat.
Nobody does it.
No one likes to do
it, because they
think it kills the
romance, but guess what?
50% of divorce ends up
because of finances.
>>LISA: 50%.
Wow.
That's huge.
So that's obviously
a conversation
that's not happening.
Yeah.
So you suggest doing a little
bit for the-- woman's account,
man's account separate, and
a joint account together
that gets contributed to first.
>>BURDICK: Yep.
>>LISA: OK.
And that gets taken
care of first,
and it takes care
of all the bills.
If there's anything
left over individually,
then people can do their
own thing without judgment.
Good advice.
That's good.
OK.
So you also talk about two
different tracks of life.
Tell us about this.
>>BURDICK: OK.
So I can't take claim to this.
I learned this from my therapist
many years ago, Deanna Olliker.
She came up with this
concept that Darwin's theory
of survival of the fittest works
in the jungle but also works
for people emotionally
and psychologically,
the concept being is that,
when you come out of the birth
canal, it was the most fabulous
hotel you'll ever be in .
Around the clock food,
beverages, you name it.
Clean sheets, right?
All of a sudden, nine months
later, the universe is going,
let's go.
And you're going, no, I'm
not ready to come out yet.
Let's go.
Come on.
So on one level, it's your first
experience of being abandoned.
You're losing that space.
You can never go back there.
So what happens as you start
to grow and kind of get--
because kids are
smart, you know this,
the kids are smart before
they came out of the canal.
They're so evolved.
But they get a sense of
who and what and where,
and they kind of
get their bearings.
And they can see
really quickly who's
going to take care
of them and who
is going to be very
marginal and unavailable.
That's why it's really
important that when
babies are born that the mother
carries the baby, literally.
Sleeps with the baby--
because for nine months,
the baby's been,
doo doo doo doo.
Well, that has to continue
as a transition, right?
But most mothers don't do that.
>>LISA: Well, also, the
hospitals don't let you.
They take the baby right
away, and they test it,
and they put it in an
incubator in modern hospitals.
We actually had to fight
and sign all sorts of things
in order to keep our
baby in our hands.
>>BURDICK: Nice.
Oh, good for you.
>>LISA: Yeah, well,
it's because we
had help to make us aware
of something like that
through a doula, but I digress.
But, yeah, it's true.
It's built in that way for
safety in American hospitals.
>>BURDICK: It's built
in there for liability.
That's what it's about.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes, it is.
>>BURDICK: We're not going
down that conversation, right?
But anyway, so going
back to two tracks.
So what happens is who
you are authentically,
instead of being
celebrated and supported,
you have to shift to survive.
Because a three-year-old
can't make oatmeal, right?
So the kid learns really
early, if I do this,
I'll get my needs met.
Because it is about
survival, right?
If I do this, I'm going
to be abandoned again.
Problem is, when-- and by the
time you're five years old,
your values and perceptions
and assumptions of the world
are set.
But meanwhile,
you're 25 years old,
and you're making decisions as
if-- because emotionally you're
still five.
And that's what
gets people trapped,
their authentic self
versus their adapted self.
>>LISA: So we're,
at 25 and 45 and 55,
still thinking that our needs
are going to get met from--
>>BURDICK: Well, we
make the wrong choices,
because we haven't learned
that it's OK to be authentic.
That's the path
we need to be on.
That's why we get
into so much debt.
It's because our adapted self is
making all the wrong decisions.
A five-year-old
can't drive a car,
but meanwhile, we give
him permission to do that.
>>LISA: We're making-- that
inauthentic self is making
decisions based on the fact
that we're not good enough.
That's where it stems
from, you're saying.
>>BURDICK: And
then we can't cope
because we don't
trust ourselves.
>>LISA: I see.
Yes.
That's a very good point.
All right.
Well, we're going to take a
look here at a clip of Pegi
giving this lecture to a group
of people about these two
different tracks.
Take a look.
>>BURDICK: Who wants to
talk about depression?
One, two, three.
Who wants to talk
about isolation?
Five.
Who wants to talk
about self sabotage?
Good.
OK.
I didn't explain
to you-- where is
this thing-- I didn't explain
to you that-- remember
I said you have two
voices in my head?
What I have in my
head and my life--
I said to you my life was split.
I'd say to my therapist,
what's going on here?
Because when you come
out of the birth canal,
how everyone handles you--
your mother included--
tells you how you're
going to survive.
And what happens to
children real early,
they get the lay of
the land, and they
see who they are authentically
is not acceptable.
If they adapt and become
a different persona,
they will get their needs met.
It's kind of like Darwin's
theory, survival of the jungle,
but it's really
about your emotions
and your psychological make up.
Those two drives are so
powerful, they run your life.
You have people-- and I was
one of them-- when I was 58,
it was finally like admitting
that I had these two tracks.
They weren't working.
I couldn't live in this
adapted world anymore.
I couldn't have
yet one more job.
Right?
I had to be authentic.
And who you are authentically--
and we touched on this
a little bit-- is
about being inside.
My nana, oddly
enough, she was right.
Teaching would make me happy.
And it has.
But all of you have desires.
All of you have things that
you don't take care of.
And you can.
You have the power of choice.
So what happens to these
two tracks-- and you have it
in your face every single moment
of the day with your mom--
is you have to be a certain
way in order to survive.
And sometimes it
just doesn't fit.
In fact, it makes us angry.
In fact, you say to yourself,
what am I doing here?
You do it either in a
relationship or a job.
It doesn't matter.
I'm wearing these jeans
that were on sale.
I bought them.
I was like, oh, god,
they don't fit me.
What am I doing here?
Right?
We all do these things.
So the point of it
is to acknowledge
that you have these two tracks.
The sabotage comes
into play-- sabotage
is like this little
five-year-old inside of you
who's constantly going to get in
your way because she's scared.
That's all it is.
So when I asked
you all to identify
what was in the threshold
of the doorway, right,
and you shared a little
bit of your insecurities,
right, it's all fear.
Everything you do
comes from fear.
And fear of what?
This is the first time
you've heard this.
Do not forget this.
I'm going to draw a red
box around this statement.
This is the coup de grace.
And some of you may not like
what you're going to hear,
but it's what I live by.
My feeling and my theory is that
when you come out of the birth
canal, it's a huge emotional
change and spiritual change
for a child.
There's a sense of rejection
coming out of the womb.
You're leaving this
fantastic hotel.
God says, oop, time to go.
OK.
And what happens, again, the
mother in those nine months
has to do certain things for the
child to make them feel safe.
But most of us, and
I swear to god I
think-- I know it's,
like, 99% of all of us--
is that that life
doesn't really happen,
because there's a lot going
on, especially if you have
siblings, especially a
lot of stuff in the house.
So what happens, our
needs get pushed aside.
And our needs at those ages
are who we are authentically.
Again, the child wants warmth,
closeness, and acceptance.
Well, if no one is giving that
to the child who deserves it
appropriately,
guess what happens?
The child gets a message
of I'm not good enough--
that's where shame comes from--
and the sabotage gets played
out is that as
you get older, you
have this concrete
slab of monsters.
So if I go to be successful,
or if I go to do this,
I might get abandoned again.
Should I say it again?
This is-- This is,
like, powerful.
>>LISA: So we talked a little
before that clip about children
and how to have a conversation
with children about money.
And if they're-- maybe
50, 60 years ago,
the conversation never happened
around the dinner table about
money, so children grew up to
be adults these days not knowing
or not having a lot of
knowledge around money.
Nowadays, modern families are
having too much conversation
around the dinner
table about money.
And so we've swung the
opposite direction.
Where do you-- where's the
middle of the road here?
How do you educate children
early on about finances?
>>BURDICK: Well, first of
all, it's really before that,
because it's not
about the money.
It's about respect.
And if you treat your
child with respect,
demand it back
from them, then you
have a very different kind
of learning environment.
And the way to talk about money
with your children, again,
you need to be comfortable,
because kids are sensitive.
They'll pick up any
vibe from anywhere.
Right?
>>LISA: Right.
>>BURDICK: So the
key for you is to be
comfortable with the money.
Let's say you don't have
enough for whatever.
Instead of saying to the
child, Daddy didn't bring home
a paycheck or something
terribly negative that
makes a child
uncomfortable, you have
to be very calm-- literally
calm-- and go, you know what?
I don't know that we can
really do that this week.
We're going to do
this, this instead.
So that tone, that sense
that I have control,
gets transmitted to the child,
so they don't focus on it.
As soon as you deviate, and
you do something, like, odd,
the kid's going to go, uh
oh, something's going on.
And that's what they
get distracted by.
>>LISA: So staying consistent
and in control is the key.
>>BURDICK: And calm because
you have to always portray
to your child that you
will take care of them.
>>LISA: Or if there's a
financial scarcity conversation
happening around the dinner
table or in the household,
that threatens the child's
safety in the world?
You told me this before, right?
>>BURDICK: Yeah.
Because their perception is
that this thing is gonna--
this disaster is
going to happen,
as opposed to it's
the way you frame it.
It's the way you set
it up for the child.
>>LISA: So even if there is
financial difficulty happening
in the household, to
frame it to the children,
basically say we're
making different decisions
with our money
right now, or we're
choosing to do something
different right now.
>>BURDICK: Yeah.
Well, here's a huge one.
A lot of people
lost their houses.
How do you explain
that to a child?
But if you act shamed by it,
and you have all these emotions
that you keep dragging and
presenting to your child,
regardless of their
age, it's going
to make them really
uncomfortable, as
opposed to dinner
time conversation,
we're going to talk about this.
This is what's happened.
We're going to move
forward with this.
Be the captain of the ship.
You've got to be.
>>LISA: So obviously
the child's moved
from maybe a house
to an apartment,
and they see what's
happening in the household.
And you just simply say,
this is what happened.
Daddy lost his job.
We had to move to another house.
We're going to stay
calm about this.
We're going to make
things happen this way
and still try to maintain
some type of consistency,
like, at least dinner three
days a week or something, right?
>>BURDICK: Absolutely.
And to make it fun.
You know, kids--
Listen, what does
everybody want?
Everyone wants warmth,
closeness, and acceptance,
right?
Everybody wants to be
engaged, even my cat.
Every specie needs to connect.
So when you have an
issue that's challenging
for a family, what
do you got to do?
You got to connect
and stay connected,
not this thing, the
opposite of this.
>>LISA: But those three
things you just mentioned
don't cost anything-- warmth,
closeness, and connection.
>>BURDICK: Acceptance.
>>LISA: Acceptance.
Thank you.
Warmth, acceptance,
and connection?
>>BURDICK: Warmth,
closeness, and acceptance.
Susan Piver taught me this.
It's just so profound.
It's a funny
passage in her book,
and I'm like, wow, that is
absolutely the essence-- right,
three words?
It's the essence of everything.
>>LISA: Yes.
No, that's true, and those
things don't cost anything.
All right.
So let's take a look at
everything from the wagon wheel
concept that you have--
and we have a graphic
here of what this
is-- what do you
teach with this tool
of the wagon wheel?
>>BURDICK: Everything in life
is related to something else.
The core of the wagon
wheel is cracked.
So that's your self esteem.
So if your self
esteem is cracked,
all of those different parts
of that wheel-- the wheel's
going to wobble.
But as soon as you get it
cemented back and repair
someone's self esteem, the
wheel will move smoothly.
Because some people
don't see the connection
between their closet where
they can't find anything,
their refrigerator
where the outdated food
is pushed all the way
in the back and they
can't see anything, to their
behavior at their office.
They can't see any
connection to anything.
But when people, again,
don't operate out
of respect-- that's where
everything starts-- then
everything is a mess, and
everything is slightly chaotic.
>>LISA: So in this
image here, you've
got the cracked self
esteem in the beginning.
But if you were to have
the center hub be complete,
then that means everything
else would fall into place.
So it would be career, finances,
pets, spiritual, children, fun,
health, friends,
siblings, and partner.
So it's all basically
related to the self esteem?
>>BURDICK: You ever
hear the expression,
how you do one thing is
how you do everything?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BURDICK: That's it.
So you're not going
to have someone
that has a meticulous
car and then
go home and find their
medicine cabinet a mess.
You don't have that
contradiction with someone.
You have other kinds
of contradictions,
but the point of it is that
how you relate to yourself, how
you feel about yourself,
gets transmitted
to your environment, to all
of the people in your life,
to the way you talk to a
waitress in a restaurant.
>>LISA: I once listened to
a lecture from Lisa Nichols,
and she said, if you
show me a person's trunk,
then I can show
you their finances.
>>BURDICK: Oh, that's brilliant.
Good for her.
That's good.
>>LISA: I thought that
was really interesting.
So if your trunk is a mess--
think about your trunk
right now.
Is it organized?
>>BURDICK: I have
a station wagon,
and I'm proud to say
it's quite organized.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>BURDICK: But it's
not fastidious.
It needs to get washed,
but I have it organized.
>>LISA: You do
have it organized.
I've got various
things in my trunk.
It's not a mess,
but there's probably
five or six things
that are out of order,
and that would probably
explain my finances.
I have five or six
things going on.
They're fine, but they're
a little bit out of order.
So that's really interesting.
It's just a game to play.
All right.
So let's talk about the roadmap.
>>BURDICK: Ooh, the roadmap.
I love the roadmap.
The roadmap-- I call
it the holy grail,
because when you have
to implement something--
this is the key.
Knowledge is great.
What are you doing with it?
You better do something
with it, or you're just
supporting the edge
of the table, right?
So the key to healing
is, first of all,
keeping your self commitments.
Second, from keeping your self
commitments comes self respect.
>>LISA: OK.
>>BURDICK: Remember
earlier on, I said to you,
you know, it's because
people don't trust.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BURDICK: So in order for
you to really trust yourself,
you have to have
respect for yourself.
>>LISA: Right.
Can you give us some
examples of this?
Because those are big words, and
they've been used very often.
What are some really
concrete examples
of how self commitment
relates to self respect?
>>BURDICK: Oh, it's here.
Let's show the third
tool, the respect-o-meter.
Right?
The respect-o-meter--
because you have control,
you have power.
How you choose to use it is
how people get into trouble.
So if you choose
the respect-o-meter,
this moment is your
threshold of time,
because you're in the present.
If I said to you, I'm committing
myself to go on a diet.
Great.
What does that mean?
No sugar, no
chocolate, all of that.
Right.
So here I am.
I'm hungry.
I can have an apple, or
I can have a hamburger.
What's it going to be?
>>LISA: Apple.
>>BURDICK: Right, or hamburger?
So the respect-o-meter--
excuse me--
makes you accountable
for your actions
so that if you pick a
hamburger, before you pick it,
you say to yourself, so
how much respect are you
going have for yourself
if you eat the burger?
Well, not a whole lot.
How much are you going to
have when you have the apple?
I'm going to love you more.
Great.
What's it going to be today?
I'll have the apple.
Thank you.
>>LISA: So every decision
can be made from that.
>>BURDICK: Every
conflict needs to have--
you need to superimpose
that over it,
because then you have power.
>>LISA: That's
actually a great point.
So when it comes to
taking care of yourself
or choosing the right
relationship or business
partner or anything, if you
can check it against your self
commitment and
self respect-- now,
there's another part to the
holy grail here-- self trust
and self love.
>>BURDICK: Ooh.
OK.
So, you know, you
hear the expression
that trust is the cornerstone
of a good relationship.
But how do you get there?
How you build trust with your--
and it could be your partner.
It could be your child.
Doesn't matter.
It's an investment, and
you have to be honest.
You have to be accountable.
>>LISA: Takes time.
>>BURDICK: How many people say
one thing and do the opposite?
That doesn't breed trust.
In fact, it breeds the opposite.
So we were talking
about mothers before.
I had this-- this
doctor one time,
and she was complaining
to me about her--
about her child
lies all the time.
He was, like, 14.
And I'm thinking,
you set this up.
But he thinks the only
way he can get he wants
or get what he thinks he
needs is by lying to you.
Because in her early
years with him,
that's how she appeared to
him, because she did not
develop the honesty.
Because here's a key--
and you have a daughter.
You understand this.
When you say your
child, I don't want
you to have sugar-- and that's a
hard thing with kids in school,
because everyone's
eating cupcakes, right?
But when your child says to you,
Mommy, I had a cupcake today
and tells you, and you
don't punish them-- see,
the catch is, kids don't
tell the truth because they
think they're going
to get punished.
Again, it starts
way back here when
you tell your child
not to do something.
And then the proof
is-- the consistency
is that you never punish them.
You just want the
information, because the child
feels badly enough.
Coming to you is huge.
You've got to hold on to that,
because especially when they
start going through
those teen years,
it is really challenging.
>>LISA: Trust is established
very early on with children.
Even when they tell you a
secret, and if you go ahead
and tell someone else,
the trust is broken.
It could be through any
type of realm of trust.
>>BURDICK: Well, yeah,
but here is actually
where trust really starts.
Trust starts when you
come out of the womb,
because when the mother
is carrying the child,
she can anticipate the needs.
That's the bonding stage,
the trusting stage,
that is critical for a child.
But let's say circumstances
aren't allowable.
Maybe you adopt a child,
you get your child at 3.
If the mother sets up that kind
of way that they communicate
with each other,
it will never fail.
But as soon as someone
deviates and starts to punish,
then the lying is
going to start.
You can't punish them.
You want them to--
you constantly
want them to do this with you.
Tell me.
And be able to say to
them, so, how do you feel?
The kid goes, I feel great.
I had the cupcake.
OK.
But try better next time.
>>LISA: Something like that.
So what you could do-- and it's
interesting that we're talking
about parenting advice when
we're actually talking about
money, because the name of
the book is "It's Never About
the Money ..Even When It Is."
So even if the trust has
been broken early on, which
is very, very possible and
very likely, so for all us
that happened to--
>>BURDICK: You mean
most of America?
Most of the world?
OK.
>>LISA: So you can start
and establish the trust now,
even if you have an adult child.
You can start, or you can
parent yourself and start
with yourself to develop
trust, which goes back
to the roadmap, the holy
grail roadmap, where you say,
this is how to establish
trust with yourself,
financially,
relationship, anything.
You start with self
commitment, and then you
trust yourself
into self respect.
>>BURDICK: No.
No.
It's self commitment,
respect, then trust.
You can't leap frog this.
Then it's love.
>>LISA: So it has
to go in order.
>>BURDICK: You have
>>LISA: Self respect--
I mean self commitment,
respect, then trust, and
then ultimately love.
>>BURDICK: Right.
>>LISA: Now, this could
actually really heal
somebody's financial
situation, right?
>>BURDICK: Well, yeah, because--
remember the part in the book
where you have the redcoats,
and the redcoats are in line,
because that's the way
they used to fight?
In the Civil War, they
all lined up, right?
Well, the healing process
is like-- it's almost
like dominoes.
So you have the redcoats--
I have all these metaphors--
the redcoat steps
out because he's
healed this issue
about whatever.
All of them move forward.
So he steps out again.
They all move forward.
So you don't have
to work on this
and then put the
same amount of effort
into this guy, this
guy, and that guy.
No, they all flow
very gracefully.
Because when you start to
shift, they all go together.
And it's a very
reassuring concept
that if you can
build self respect--
I have a client, and she said
to me a couple of weeks ago,
she says, you know-- because
we send our invoices out--
she said, this month, I paid you
from my own checking account.
I didn't put it
on a credit card.
That was huge, right?
These little, tiny
victories that people have,
it then spills into
this and into that.
Because as she's telling
more stories about her week
and whatever, it starts
to pop up like poppies.
Like, oh, god, did you see this?
Did you see that?
It's connected to this.
Oh, wow.
So people see their progress
if they follow the formula.
And it never fails.
>>LISA: So you're a
financial whisperer.
What does that mean?
>>BURDICK: What does that mean?
>>LISA: What does that mean?
>>BURDICK: You know, it's
funny, because I rarely ever
have to talk about
money, because it's not
about the money.
It's really about the behaviors.
It's the disconnection between
our feelings and our behaviors.
That's what I get people to look
at, because it's about control.
Remember I said three words?
It's about control.
Somebody-- listen to
me-- somebody has it.
Somebody needs it.
How do you get it?
Right?
You've got to have-- because
at the end of the day,
someone has to have,
and it better be you.
Or else something
else has it over you.
>>LISA: So what you
do winds up being
more psychotherapy
than anything.
But your background
is in finances?
>>BURDICK: Well, you see,
that's not-- not exactly.
If you look at my-- if
you look at my history,
I have a-- I was the
serial entrepreneur,
owning-- you know, building
a restaurant in New York,
being a contractor out here.
I had tons of jobs.
Because what it really was
about is not knowing who I was
and trying to
please other people.
So everything was always
about making money.
It wasn't about making me happy.
It was a certain
lifestyle, which
I think most people ascribe to.
They don't get a chance
until something happens
to take a step back and
go, what do I really want?
What really gives my life value?
You know, what is
my purpose here?
So I didn't find that
until my life fell apart.
See, there was a value--
there was a purpose to that.
>>LISA: And so when it
fell apart, you rebuilt it,
and then you built in these
tools in order to rebuild it.
>>BURDICK: Well, the tools--
everyone is creative.
Everybody.
And when we take that
away from ourselves,
we diminish ourselves.
So in solving my
own personal stuff,
I was always able to find the
three words, and it's like,
what's really going on here?
And the ultimate-- why is
my second favorite word--
and I would be able to
identify it and then
be able to expand on it
and make a tool out of it.
Because I do it my--
I use it myself.
If it's good enough for me,
it's good enough for you,
good for you.
Because it works.
You don't have to
reinvent the wheel.
So just keep it simple,
but be honest about it.
>>LISA: So there's another tool
that you have, which is great,
the respect-o-meter.
>>BURDICK: Yes.
>>LISA: This is great, because
it helps with every decision
that you need to make it.
So you can wager
every decision you
need to make against your
little respect-o-meter.
How does this work?
>>BURDICK: OK.
So here we go.
So you are in the
moment of choice.
Remember, you have to
honor your self commitment.
This is not commitment to bring
a birthday cake to the event.
This is you've committed
yourself to drink more water,
floss your teeth, get more
exercise, stop eating sugar.
Whatever.
It doesn't matter what it is.
Spend more time with your kids.
So here comes this opportunity,
and you could-- life
is always one or the other.
You go left or you go right.
Right?
So you have an opportunity to
keep the commitment or not.
But if you don't
keep the commitment,
it's about a loss of respect.
If you don't have
respect, you're
pushing away the
time that you're
going to start
trusting yourself.
So you want to get
to the trust window
as soon as you can because
that is-- that, right after, is
followed by love, and
who doesn't want love?
>>LISA: So if you're looking
at the pair of black shoes
at the store, and you have five
more pairs of black shoes--
pumps, specifically--
in the closet,
>>BURDICK: OK.
>>LISA: Am I looking
in your closet?
I think it's pretty much
many women's closet.
So you're looking at
that pair of black shoes.
At what point do you say,
brain, you have five.
Walk away from the shoes.
>>BURDICK: No, no, no.
I personally would not say that.
I would say to myself,
do you need this?
And I'd go, no.
Do you want this?
Oh, yeah.
I want it real badly.
OK.
Did you make your
mortgage payment?
I'd go through the list
that need to get paid.
>>LISA: Right there
in front of the shoes.
>>BURDICK: In my mind.
Right then and there.
So how much money is left
over from all of that?
I'm like, uh, I'll
do some calculations,
like, you know what?
Let's do this.
Let's give the
salesperson your card.
Tell her you want that.
When it goes on sale,
have her call you.
And meanwhile, you'll
postpone it for the future.
Well, what happens if
the shoes disappear?
Then, honey, the shoes
weren't meant for you.
And then you have
to abide by that.
>>LISA: OK.
So let's take it to the
next level-- a house.
So many people got
into housing situations
that they could never afford.
And the banks allowed that.
But it was also getting
into those situations
in the first place.
How do we go after that?
The dream or up levelling your
life and get somebody who can
really take a look at
your finances-- yourself,
specifically-- and say,
I cannot afford this,
or I can afford this.
Does that come from the same
way of doing your finances?
Really getting a
clear picture of it?
>>BURDICK: But
everything is about that.
Food's the same way.
Should you have sugar?
Should you have soda?
Anything.
So you can-- the key is to
live a life of accountability.
Live a clean life.
Be healthy.
What's the most precious
thing you have is your health.
>>LISA: It is true.
Yes.
>>BURDICK: So people
take it for granted.
They take so many
things for granted.
And you can't do that,
because all you have is this.
So if you don't
take care of this,
but meanwhile you're
trying to tell--
I use this classic, telling
someone else what to do--
meanwhile, you can't do it.
>>LISA: Well, it's also
we look for experts
outside of ourselves, because
they have more experience.
And when you're
trying to climb out
of a financial
situation, as you say,
or when you have a
lack of knowledge
around a certain area,
you go to dietitians,
or you seek out nutritional
experts or books or Gaiam TV
or whatever it is in order
to be able to get yourself
to the next level.
But those are investments,
like you had with the coach.
So how do you wager that?
When you were in that
situation, you were in debt,
but yet you spent
money on a coach.
Why did you decide to do that?
>>BURDICK: Well,
first of all, it
wasn't buying another
pair of shoes.
It wasn't something frivolous.
People have to
know the difference
between if something
makes sense.
So then we're coming into a
whole category of instinct
and fear and stuff like that.
But for the most part,
I thought it made sense,
because I needed a ladder.
I needed a tool.
I needed a shovel.
I needed something to
give me more information,
because reading
only went so far.
Because what I
learned when I read,
the artist's way
is I was entitled.
Great.
Then now what do I do with it?
So when I asked a couple
people for a recommendation
on a career coach, and I
interviewed some of them,
it became, then,
really clear to me
that this was the path,
because it felt right.
Your instincts
are your identity.
Your feelings are your identity.
And I had had enough therapy.
I had enough knowledge
to feel, you know what?
I think this makes sense.
And here's the
coup de grace test.
If I turned around and said
it to family members who
operate very differently than
I do, what would they say?
They'd say, that makes sense.
Shoes, no.
Career coach, yeah.
That makes sense.
>>LISA: Oh, that's
a great litmus test.
>>BURDICK: Right.
Providing it's the
right person to ask.
You can't ask the wrong person.
You've got to ask the person
who really is grounded and not
full of a lot of--
>>LISA: Not the person
you learned it from.
>>BURDICK: Right.
Or it doesn't have to be a
family member, but someone
who you trust, who has
your best interest at heart
to be able to say,
does this make sense?
And weight in.
>>LISA: Now, as a
financial whisper,
you have done this for how long?
How long have you been
coaching people around this?
>>BURDICK: I started this
business seven years ago.
>>LISA: OK.
And what is the
biggest complaint
that people come to you with?
>>BURDICK: Being unhappy.
Being out of control.
It's not about how
much money they make.
It's that they can't
manage their money,
and they have-- it's
almost like-- let's say
I have a client that makes
$150,000 or $200,000 a year.
She still has so much debt.
It's like she's living
almost paycheck to paycheck.
And she knows something's wrong.
She doesn't really know
how to get a grip on it.
>>LISA: So that's what you
mean by out of control,
that loop right there, where you
are-- one thing is happening,
yet it's inauthentic
with yourself.
>>BURDICK: Because
it doesn't feel OK.
And again, your
feelings are everything.
>>LISA: So have
you really helped
someone who's been $200,000
in debt reduce their debt?
>>BURDICK: Oh, yeah.
>>LISA: By becoming
authentic with themselves.
>>BURDICK: Well,
here's the thing.
I had a-- yes.
I had one of my clients many,
many years ago came to me
because she had a fear
of public speaking.
So for her, that's the
problem she wanted to solve.
Well, I'm not a speak-- I
don't teach public speaking.
It' just not what I do.
But she came
recommended by somebody.
So when we sat, we were then
able to dissect and then see
her money and see
the disconnection
and see how she was
spending when she was upset
and how all those other pieces--
but her fear of public speaking
really came from her
fear of being unworthy.
She had an older brother
that her mother fussed over,
and everything was about him.
Nothing was about her except
where she went to law school,
where she did her
undergraduate work.
The pressure on
her was staggering.
So no wonder she had feelings
of no matter what I do,
I'm not good enough, right?
And she was president of
a very well known company,
a lot of visibility
in California.
But she had, like, the secret,
the shame, that every time she
had to get up and speak,
it's like, she almost
had take a Xanax.
Or she did take a Xanax.
And she just couldn't
manage with it,
and she was embarrassed,
and she had shame about it.
So we were able to
navigate through it.
Now, that's not a story
about money, per se,
but money played a
part in it in terms
of how she would express
her angst, her nervousness.
She'd go shopping.
>>LISA: Right.
I see.
Which worsened the situation.
>>BURDICK: Well,
she could afford it,
but then when I sent someone
to refinance her house when
I got out of the business--
but when you looked
at her financials, it's like,
well, this doesn't make sense.
You're making all this
money, and meanwhile, you
have huge credit card
expenses for what?
For what?
What do you have to
spend all this money
for on this stuff when you
already had a Mercedes.
You have this.
You have that.
What?
It should be going
into your 401(k).
It should go into a
different retirement fund.
So to get her to kind of relook
at everything and get control.
That's always the
key is get control.
>>LISA: So we talked
a lot about debt.
Let's talk a little
bit about breaking
through a financial glass
ceiling, if you will,
or up leveling to the
next financial bracket
if that's what one desires.
How do you get through
the programming
from the family or the
lifestyle that you're
accustomed to into
that next level,
if that's what you desire,
so that you could either
fund a 401(k), create a savings,
put children through college,
donate back, build
a forest, whatever
it is that you want to do?
>>BURDICK: Well, first of all,
what is the thing the person
wants to accomplish?
And then the
disconnect of, again,
feeling you're not
worthy to do it,
because you have to put
yourself in a certain space.
You have to be willing to
do the work to change it.
So by glass ceiling,
I'm assuming
you don't mean the
corporate, traditional glass
ceiling of how do you get
ahead in the company, right?
You're talking about
your personal stuff.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BURDICK: Again, it goes
back to keep a commitment.
Because if you've decided
that you want to do whatever--
and I'm not a big
believer in student loans,
because some of the programs
are really from cradle to grave.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>BURDICK: Yeah.
They get you early on.
They give you all
these loans so you
can put your child
into private school,
and then it takes
off from there,
as opposed to when you decide
that you want to have children,
create a family, and you
project the expenses.
Yes, you want your child
to go to private school.
Well, how are you
going to afford that?
So the concept of borrowing
money at that early stage
is crazy.
You've got to start
putting stuff aside for it.
making some sacrifices.
Change your lifestyle.
I had two producers
that came to me.
Both BMW's, were incredibly high
lifestyle, trips, you name it.
And they were miserable
with each other, and they
just-- they couldn't
get out of debt.
It's like, well,
change your lifestyle.
Get a Volkswagen, not an Audi.
Get this.
Get that.
It's like, well,
we can't do that.
It's like, yeah, because
they've allowed those things
to define how they feel.
That makes them feel better.
>>LISA: Well, we do tend
to identify ourselves
through our net worth in
certain countries, specifically
America.
And also, say,
specifically men seem
to have that pressure that,
if they lose their job,
they seem to lose
their personal worth.
How do you unentangle your net
worth from your self worth?
>>BURDICK: You have
to be grounded.
That's the key to everything.
Because if you have
the vocabulary,
and you're in touch with
the feeling of what it means
or how it makes you feel to
spend $2,000 on a mountain
bike, and why do
you have to do that?
If someone can identify
and be honest about it with
themselves-- as most
people don't want to do--
>>LISA: You're talking
to the wrong person,
because I'm a mountain biker,
and I know what a $2,000
mountain bike could
have-- bottom line is,
you've got to choose your--
>>BURDICK: Well, yeah.
But here's the thing.
If you've got to--
if it's a must
have, then you have
to treat it like when
you try to teach your
child about saving
to buy their first car.
You have to earn it.
You have to earn the respect.
You have to do the
groundwork for it.
But when people start--
obviouly, it's just not men.
When you start identifying
yourself and valuing yourself
through something external,
you're in big trouble.
>>LISA: Well, you would only
need a $2,000 mountain bike
once every 10 to 12
years, so that's OK,
you could budget for it.
>>BURDICK: Good to know.
>>LISA: But you mentioned
about budgeting for something.
So we do tend to live close
to-- year out, our goals, maybe,
could be a couple
of months away,
especially how quickly
things are moving these days.
When you set a goal three to
five years into the future,
do you recommend
people doing that?
>>BURDICK: Listen.
Anything that makes sense that
keeps you focused, I support.
Having a plan, especially
when you have a family,
makes sense, because
then-- remember
earlier I was saying
to you how you feel?
You have to feel
calm all the time.
Well, you're going to
feel calm all the time
if you've identified the
stuff that's coming up
and you know how you're going
to cover it or not cover it.
But having the information
gives you power.
>>LISA: You said
something before that
was really interesting about do
I want this, or do I need this?
And that's a really
good barometer there.
How do you distinguish
the difference
between want and need?
>>BURDICK: Oh, OK.
So I need to
contribute to my 401(k)
because it's part
of my life goal.
I want the jacket.
What's going to help
me sleep at night,
my 401(k) or this
fabulous jacket?
>>LISA: And how often do you
contribute to the 401(k)?
How often do you suggest?
>>BURDICK: Well,
everyone's different.
You could be every paycheck.
That's usually the
easiest thing and have
them take it automatically.
>>LISA: Or every quarter or
whatever your situation is.
So that has to happen
before-- and you
could be an entrepreneur.
You could be--
this could actually
be done for you if
you're an employee.
But that needs to be done before
the extra things that you buy.
>>BURDICK: Well, yeah,
because, again, it's
keeping your commitment.
You have a lot more respect
for yourself when you've
said no to different
things-- doesn't matter
what it is-- than you have
if you constantly give in,
and you're permissive with
yourself or with your child.
There's no positive
outcome to that.
>>LISA: So keeping calm around
financial crisis is important.
Making good choices
that are true
and authentic to yourself,
to be able to plan ahead
and not be so impulsive.
Realize that your
self worth is more
important than your net worth,
which is also a huge key here.
And all of these things is why
it's not all about the money,
even when it is.
>>BURDICK: Well said.
>>LISA: OK.
I read that book.
>>BURDICK: You
did your homework.
Good for you.
>>LISA: So is there anything
that we haven't covered here?
>>BURDICK: Sabotage.
>>LISA: Sabotage.
OK, great.
Great, great point.
>>BURDICK: Self
sabotage is rampant,
and people don't realize that's
really what they're doing.
So here we have the
respect-o-meter,
and you've already
lost the five pounds,
and here comes that
fabulous greasy burger.
That's sabotage.
Your little one that
sits on your shoulder,
your five-year-old-- remember
before I said to you, hey,
who has the keys to the car?
If you let her have
keys to the car,
you're going to
crash into the wall.
It's sabotage.
You turn in the poor
report to your boss,
and you know it's full
of holes, but you're
angry at him, gee, who's
going to suffer here?
You or your boss?
It's going to be you.
People's perception
of you matters.
You're trying to rise
the corporate ladder.
You better have
your act together.
If your car's dirty, or you've
got a run in your stocking,
and you walk into the
office, your hair is wet,
it's like, it doesn't give
a good impression of how
professional you are.
So all those tiny things reflect
how we feel about ourselves.
>>LISA: OK.
So how, though, do you
stop the self sabotage?
You gave us a lot of examples of
how people sabotage themselves,
but how do you stop it?
>>BURDICK: Here's
how you stop it.
Remember before I said to you,
your feelings are everything?
Your feelings are your identity?
So you have to-- when
you feel [GRUMBLING]--
I Stole this from
Homeland Security.
Blue, yellow, orange, red.
OK.
So everyone's hunky dory, blue.
Everyone's having
the party hats on.
Something shifts,
and you can see
this in your
three-month-old baby.
Something, the energy
in the room shifts.
So what happens is that
blue goes into yellow.
That's the shifting.
Well, it's the
same thing with us.
If we feel ourselves shifting,
the most important thing we do
is get all the troops together.
Get them all in your
living room in your head
and go, OK, what's
going on here?
Well, this is going on.
How do you feel?
Oh, I feel this and that.
OK.
Let's address it.
And this happens-- bam, bam,
bam-- in the split of a minute.
If you identify what it's
about and then identify
the source of it, it
gives you information.
The key to self
sabotage is you've
got to identify her feelings.
The most important
thing that children need
is your presence
and your patience.
>>LISA: So we can do
that with ourselves.
>>BURDICK: Exactly.
You take your little
five-year-old.
You put her in your lap.
You put your arms around her,
and you rock her, and you say,
what's going on?
And she'll tell you.
You have to use self
sabotage on your commitments,
because that's
when it comes out.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>BURDICK: If you've
committed yourself
to walk every day for 30
minutes, and now you get up,
and it's like, I'm
not doing this,
and you start arguing
with yourself,
if you don't know how to get
past it, you'll stay in bed,
and guess what?
You won't feel great
about yourself.
So the key with sabotage is
to acknowledge it, embrace it,
hold on to it, feel
it to breathe with it,
and then move on.
>>LISA: And stay calm.
That's great.
This is all great advice,
especially for anyone
dealing with
financial situations,
trying to climb that
corporate ladder,
or getting ahead in
terms of savings.
So thank you so
much for joining me.
Great advice.
>>BURDICK: Thank you.
It was my pleasure.
Thank you so much.
>>LISA: Fun stuff.
And if you'd like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Pegi Burdick or share
it with your friends,
you can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.